---
layout: post
title:  "Full Disk Recovery"
date:   2021-06-08
categories: chaos_experiment broker disk
author: Christopher Zell ([@zelldon](https://github.com/zelldon))
---

# Chaos Day Summary

On this chaos day we wanted to experiment with OOD recovery and ELS connection issues. This is related to the following issues from our hypothesis backlog: [zeebe-chaos#32](https://github.com/zeebe-io/zeebe-chaos/issues/32) and [zeebe-chaos#14](https://github.com/zeebe-io/zeebe-chaos/issues/14). This time [@Nico](https://github.com/korthout) joined me.

**TL;DR** ...

## Chaos Experiment 

With this experiment we want to verify that Zeebe can recover after OOD, which was caused by not exporting to ELS. For that we want to disconnect Zeebe and ELS first and see how it behaves. Afterwards we connect the services again and expect a recovery of the system.

### Expected

We expect the following properties:

 * at the beginning the system is stable (we can start instances without issues)
 * after disconnecting ELS we start to fill the disk, since we can't export (which means we can't compact)
 * after reaching the disk limits, Zeebe doesn't accept any commands anymore
 * after connecting ELS, Zeebe should start to export again (compacting should be possible again)
 * after come below the limit, Zeebe should accept commands again

### Experiment on Benchmark Cluster

As usual, we have set up a normal benchmark cluster with three nodes, three partitions and replication factor three. We run 200 PI/s and 12 workers against that cluster.

#### Actual

### Experiment on INT

After running the experiment against our benchmark clusters we were confident to run it against a Production S cluster on INT.
We have set up a Production S cluster in our chaos cluster and run the [cloud benchmark](https://github.com/camunda-cloud/zeebe/blob/develop/benchmarks/setup/newCloudBenchmark.sh) against it. It starts starter and worker against that Production S cluster, turned out not with the same load (luckily this doesn't matter for this experiment). The starter and workers are deployed in the Zeebe Team gke cluster.

#### Actual

{% if page.author %}<sup>*Written by: {{page.author}}*</sup>{% endif %}
